hi everyone welcome to behind the wheel
and left two cars calm
I'm Lindsay and today I'm getting in the
driver's seat at the 2016 Kia Sorrento
XSL with all-wheel drive Kia has
redesigned their Sorento making it more
spacious and it's really allowed it to
kind of pull away from the compact
crossover segment that was kind of
flirting with before so now with a
longer wheelbase some more interior
styling and a brand new engine option
Kia is getting pretty fancy this guy has
got the looks of an SUV the practicality
of a minivan but all the comforts of a
luxury sedan
the XXL trim features the new engine
option which is a 2.0 liter turbocharged
four-cylinder engine with a six-speed
transmission and that's putting out 240
horsepower if you want a little extra
push you could ask for the v6 and
that'll put you just shy of 300
horsepower but both of them have the
same towing capacity at 3500 pounds or
about 3 Sacre teams but unfortunately
this guy only seats 5 there is optional
third-row seating in the LX trim so
it's nice and cozy and the interior of
the Sorento I'm loving all the light
that comes through with the panoramic
sunroof and also it's got a heated
steering wheel and heated seats so my
hands and my bum are warm and my back is
also really comfortable thanks to the
adjustable lumbar support set the seats
have this car also has an upgraded tech
package which is awesome because we get
Sirius XM Radio which has over 130
channels and they all sound awesome
because we also have the infinity
surround system in here which has got
over 10 speakers to make the noise
really pop and crisp
there's also voice control navigation on
the color touchscreen system plus we've
also got blue 2
so I compare my phone one of my favorite
features in this vehicle is the 360
degree view technology which gives you a
bird's-eye view of the car so that you
can see every angle around the vehicle
so you will really know how close you're
getting to that kerb if someone's
walking in front of the car it's a very
cool feature one thing I have noticed
driving this car around is that it is
very musically inclined I have gotten
very well acquainted with all the chines
dings bells and whistles that it sets
off which leads me to a fun little game
called what's that sound that would be
the purr of the 2-litre coming to life
thanks to the push-to-start technology
that was too easy right let's move on to
the next one
so that would be the cars way of
welcoming you as you approach with their
smart detection system it can sense that
you've got the smart key on you and so
the outside mirrors automatically unfold
and the interior door pocket lights will
illuminate making it easier to enter
your vehicle when it's nighttime
so that is the sound of the hands-free
liftgate which is a super useful feature
so if you were just standing behind the
Sorento it will again that is your smart
key and automatically lift the rear up
which is great if your arms are full
carrying groceries laundry or whatever
else maybe both your hands for and that
dinky sound would be the car's way of
confidently reassuring you that you've
locked it thankfully the horn is in this
would be that familiar beeping would be
your backup sensor letting you know when
you're about to hit a stationary object
if you're dragging along and you're
tired or you're getting a little
distracted and you start to hear from
your lane that sound will chime on and
that is the lane departure warning
system letting you know you're going
outside the lines right now so that was
the 2016 Kia Sorento we had the XXL trim
in all-wheel drive and the base price
for that starts around 42,000 but as we
tested today with our optional tech
packages it brought us up to 45,000 but
if you are gonna go with the standard
entry-level
L trim then those vehicles start in the
mid 20 you mid 20 thousands so a little
bit more affordable if that's the price
range you're going for though if you're
gonna get this car you might as well go
all out
it gets 19 miles to the gallon in the
city and 25 on the highway for a
combined fuel rating of 22 and that is
all you should know about the 2016 Kia
Sorento I hope you'll enjoy please
subscribe below and thanks for watching